a survey conducted by a leading Israeli
Think Tank suggests that most Israelis
don't believe that a so-called absolute
Victory is possible in Gaza Israeli
leaders have said their main goal is to
eradicate Hamas the Israel democracy
Institute found that 51% of Jewish
respondents do not believe in such a
victory that number is even higher among
Palestinian Israelis at
77.5% while 55% of those who identified
as right Wings say they don't believe
Israel can completely destroy Hamas
meanwhile for leftwing respondents that
number increases to
85% let's go live to William Marx who's
in occupied East Jerusalem where the old
city is at the heart of Israeli
occupation and the conflict so William
uh what more can you tell us about this
survey is the tide of Israeli public
opinion turning against the government
on
[Music]
this
it's hard to answer that in the sense
that the question being asked in this
specific survey was about the likelihood
of absolute Victory a phrase we've heard
time and again from prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu about his military
strategy in Gaza but in terms of the
widespread disaffection with the the way
this war is being waged that is now
increasingly clear amongst many portions
of Israel's already very polarized
Society the respondents there as you saw
from both the left and rightwing both
Jewish and Palestinian citizens here in
Israel saying that they are very un uh
unwilling to expect as it were absolute
victory of the kind that Mr NY has been
talking
about uh and tell us a bit more about uh
a vote that has taken place today in the
Israeli Parliament regarding the
creation of Palestinian State how did
that
go well the context for this is
important an over the last few weeks
we've heard calls from senior figures in
several different countries around the
world for Palestinian statehood to be
recognized as part of any long-term
agreement that will bring this Bloodshed
to an end what we saw just a few days
ago from netanyahu's cabinet was a vote
that was ultimately symbolic saying that
they would reject the establishment of a
Palestinian State the recognition of a
Palestinian state if it was forced upon
Israel from outside of Israel in other
words of external power were to dictate
that this was an element that had to be
accepted by the Israeli government
Netanyahu promised that he would also
bring this to a vote inside the
parliament in the knesset and we've seen
the vast majority of members of the
knesset voting to again reject this idea
that statehood could be imposed upon
them externally 99 of the members of the
knesset voting to say that a small
minority primarily Palestinian israelies
and their representatives of course
saying that this was not a vote that
they agreed with but in terms of the
symbolism here this was designed as a
message from Mr Netanyahu as he made
clear to send to the world that Israelis
for the most part are united on this
very specific issue of Palestinian
statehood being imposed upon them by
external Powers okay thank you for that
Willam marks there for us in occupied
East
Jerusalem